[docs] [#10508] Added documentation on geo-partitioned transactions (#10927)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/explore/multi-region-deployments/row-level-geo-partitioning.md

    );
    ```

> 1. Create transaction tables for use within each region. (Replace the IP addresses with those of your YB-Master servers.)

Reviewer: Should this be 2. instead of 1. ?

    ```

    ```sh
    ./bin/yb-admin \
        -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
        create_transaction_table transactions_ap_south_1
    ```

1. Assign placement for each transaction table. (Replace the IP addresses with those of your YB-Master servers.)

    ```sh
    ./bin/yb-admin \
        -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
        modify_table_placement_info system transactions_eu_central_1 \
        aws.eu-central-1.eu-central-1a,aws.eu-central-1.eu-central-1b,aws.eu-central-1.eu-central-1c 3
    ```

    ```sh
    ./bin/yb-admin \
        -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
        modify_table_placement_info system transactions_us_west_2 \
        aws.us-west-2.us-west-2a,aws.us-west-2.us-west-2b,aws.us-west-2.us-west-2c 3
    ```
    ```sh
    ./bin/yb-admin \
        -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.07:7100 \
        modify_table_placement_info system transactions_ap_south_1 \
        aws.ap-south-1.ap-south-1a,aws.ap-south-1.ap-south-1b,aws.ap-south-1.ap-south-1c 3
    ```

## Step 2. Create table with partitions

> First, we create the parent table that contains a `geo_partition` column which is used to create list-based partitions for each geographic region we want to partition data into as shown in the following diagram:

Reviewer: Should be 'Next'

![Row-level geo-partitioning](/images/explore/multi-region-deployments/geo-partitioning-1.png)

1. Create the parent table.

    ```sql

>     CREATE TABLE transactions (

Reviewer: Now that we are introducing the concept of system transactions table, I think the examples in this page are better off using some other user table name - like 'bank_account_transactions'. I actually got confused with the transactions_ system table and the transactions_ user table while going over this example. I am sure a new reader would run into similar issues.

    ```output
                    List of relations
     Schema |         Name                      | Type  |  Owner
    --------+-----------------------------------+-------+----------
     public | bank_transactions         | table | yugabyte
     public | bank_transactions_eu      | table | yugabyte
     public | bank_transactions_india   | table | yugabyte
     public | bank_transactions_us      | table | yugabyte
    (4 rows)
    ```

The data is now arranged as follows:

![Row-level geo-partitioning](/images/explore/multi-region-deployments/geo-partitioning-2.png)

> ## Step 3. Pinning user bank transactions to geographic locations

Reviewer: Pinning user partitions specific to the geographic locations.

Reviewer: In this sub-section, please specify which cluster the user needs to connect to before running the inserts. We talk about the force_global_transaction flag in section 5 below. At this point, its better to specify explicit connection aspects, so that an user would be able to run the examples successfully.

Author: re: specifying connection, this is a fast path example so it's not needed to run the examples; this is explained in section 5.

```sql
DELETE FROM transactions_eu_west_1 WHERE user_id = 200 AND account_id = 10005;
```

```output
DELETE 1
```

## Step 6. Adding a new geographic location

Assume that after a while, our fictitious Yuga Bank gets a lot of customers across the globe, and wants to offer the service to residents of Brazil, which also has data residency laws. Thanks to row-level geo-partitioning, this can be accomplished easily. We can simply add a new partition and pin it to the AWS South America (São Paulo) region `sa-east-1` as shown below.

First, create the tablespace:

```sql
CREATE TABLESPACE sa_east_1_tablespace WITH (
    replica_placement='{"num_replicas": 3, "placement_blocks":
      [{"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1a","min_num_replicas":1},
      {"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1b","min_num_replicas":1},
      {"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1c","min_num_replicas":1}]}'
    );
```

> Next, create the transaction table and adjust the placement. (Replace the IP addresses with those of your YB-Master servers.)

Reviewer: Replace all references to the transaction status table with - _`system.transactions` transaction status table_

Author: Where system.transactions is not specified, it actually is referring to the general idea of transaction tables rather than the global table specifically (e.g. creating a new transaction table in a region)

    replica_placement='{"num_replicas": 3, "placement_blocks":
      [{"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1a","min_num_replicas":1},
      {"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1b","min_num_replicas":1},
      {"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1c","min_num_replicas":1}]}'
    );
```

Next, create the transaction table and adjust the placement. (Replace the IP addresses with those of your YB-Master servers.)

```sh
./bin/yb-admin \
    -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
    create_transaction_table transactions_sa_east_1
```
```sh
./bin/yb-admin \
    -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
    modify_table_placement_info system transactions_sa_east_1 \
    aws.sa-east-1.sa-east-1a,aws.sa-east-1.sa-east-1b,aws.sa-east-1.sa-east-1c 3
```

Finally, create the partition for Brazil:

```sql
CREATE TABLE bank_transactions_brazil
    PARTITION OF bank_transactions
      (user_id, account_id, geo_partition, account_type,
       amount, txn_type, created_at,
       PRIMARY KEY (user_id HASH, account_id, geo_partition))
    FOR VALUES IN ('Brazil') TABLESPACE sa_east_1_tablespace;
```

> And with that, the new region is ready to store bank transactions of the residents of Brazil.

Reviewer: Connect to brazil endpoint and insert the rows.

Author: The example here is actually a fast path insert analogous to those in step 3; it's possible to change it to be analogous to those in step 5 instead, but that would probably just complicate the example without introducing much value.

created_at    | 2020-11-07 21:28:11.056236
```

## Step 5. Running transactions

So far, we have only been running `SELECT` and [single-row
transactions](../../architecture/transactions/transactions-overview/#single-row-transactions). With geo-partitioning, there is a new complication introduced for general distributed transactions as shown below.

Let's say we want to run the following transaction:
```sql
BEGIN;
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10002, 'EU', 'checking', 400.00, 'debit');
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10003, 'EU', 'checking', 400.00, 'credit');
COMMIT;
```

If we attempt to run this while connected to a node in us-west-2:
```sql
BEGIN;
```
```
BEGIN
```
```sql
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10002, 'EU', 'checking', 400.00, 'debit');
```
```
ERROR:  Illegal state: Nonlocal tablet accessed in local transaction: tablet c5a611afd571455e80450bd553a24a64: . Errors from tablet servers: [Illegal state (yb/client/transaction.cc:284): Nonlocal tablet accessed in local transaction: tablet c5a611afd571455e80450bd553a24a64]
```

> we get an error similar to the above. This is because, since we have created a transaction table for us-west-2, by default, YugabyteDB assumes that we want to run a transaction local to the region (using the transaction status table `system.transactions_us_west_2` which we created in Step 1), but such a transaction cannot modify data outside of us-west-2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because we've created a transaction table for us-west-2, YugabyteDB assumes by default that we want to run a transaction local to that region (using the transaction status table `system.transactions_us_west_2` we created in Step 1), but such a transaction cannot modify data outside of us-west-2.
```

> However, if we instead connect to a node in eu-central-1 and run the exact same transaction:
> 
> ```sql
> BEGIN;
> ```
> ```
> BEGIN
> ```
> ```sql
> INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10002, 'EU', 'checking', 400.0, 'debit');
> ```
> ```
> INSERT 1 0
> ```
> ```sql
> INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10003, 'EU', 'checking', 400.0, 'credit');
> ```
> ```
> INSERT 1 0
> ```
> ```sql
> COMMIT;
> ```
> ```
> COMMIT
> ```
> 
> we are now able to finish and commit the transaction without error.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
However, if we instead connect to a node in eu-central-1 and run the exact same transaction, we are now able to finish and commit the transaction without error:

```sql
BEGIN;
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10002, 'EU', 'checking', 400.0, 'debit');
```

```output
INSERT 1 0
```

```sql
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10003, 'EU', 'checking', 400.0, 'credit');
```

```output
INSERT 1 0
```

```sql
COMMIT;
```

```output
COMMIT
```
````

Sometimes though, we might want to run a transaction that writes data to multiple regions, for example:

```sql
BEGIN;
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10004, 'US', 'checking', 400.00, 'debit');
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (200, 10005, 'EU', 'checking', 400.00, 'credit');
COMMIT;
```

> Running this transaction will fail whether we run it from us-west-2 or eu-central-1. The solution is to mark the transaction as a global transaction as follows:
> ```sql
> SET force_global_transaction = TRUE;
> ```
> ```
> SET
> ```
> ```sql
> BEGIN;
> ```
> ```
> BEGIN
> ```
> ```sql
> INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10004, 'US', 'checking', 400.00, 'debit');
> ```
> ```
> INSERT 1 0
> ```
> ```sql
> INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (200, 10005, 'EU', 'checking', 400.00, 'credit');
> ```
> ```
> INSERT 1 0
> ```
> ```sql
> COMMIT;
> ```
> ```
> COMMIT
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Running this transaction will fail whether we run it from us-west-2 or eu-central-1. The solution is to mark the transaction as a global transaction:

```sql
SET force_global_transaction = TRUE;
BEGIN;
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (100, 10004, 'US', 'checking', 400.00, 'debit');
```

```output
INSERT 1 0
```

```sql
INSERT INTO transactions VALUES (200, 10005, 'EU', 'checking', 400.00, 'credit');
```

```output
INSERT 1 0
```

```sql
COMMIT;
```

```output
COMMIT
```
````

Setting `force_global_transaction = TRUE` tells YugabyteDB to use the `system.transactions` transaction table instead, which is presumed to be globally replicated, and lets us run distributed transactions that span multiple regions.

> {{< note title="Note" >}}
> While all distributed transactions can run without problems under `force_global_transaction = TRUE`, such transactions may incur significantly higher latencies when committing the transaction, since YugabyteDB must perform consensus across multiple regions to write to `system.transactions`. This should only be used when necessary, and `force_global_transaction = FALSE` (the default setting) should be used whenever possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< note title="Global transaction latency" >}}
Only force global transactions when necessary. All distributed transactions _can_ run without problems under `force_global_transaction = TRUE`, but you may have significantly higher latency when committing the transaction, because YugabyteDB must achieve consensus across multiple regions to write to `system.transactions`. Whenever possible, use the default setting of `force_global_transaction = FALSE`.
```

{{< /note >}}

> Finally, let's say we want to delete the very last row we just inserted. If we run the following query connected to eu-central-1 as a local transaction:
> 
> ```sql
> SET force_global_transaction = FALSE;
> ```
> ```sql
> DELETE FROM transactions WHERE user_id = 200 AND account_id = 10005;
> ```
> ```
> ERROR:  Illegal state: Nonlocal tablet accessed in local transaction: tablet c5a611afd571455e80450bd553a24a64: . Errors from tablet servers: [Illegal state (yb/client/transaction.cc:284): Nonlocal tablet accessed in local transaction: tablet c5a611afd571455e80450bd553a24a64]
> ```
> 
> the query will once again error out. This is because we are deleting from the main table (`transactions` rather than `transactions_eu_west_1`) and not specifying the partition column (there's no `geo_partition = 'EU'` clause), which means that YugabyteDB is unable to tell that the row being deleted is in fact located in eu-central-1. To fix this, we could instead run:

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Finally, let's say we want to delete the row we just inserted. If we run the following query connected to eu-central-1 as a local transaction, the query once again errors out:

```sql
SET force_global_transaction = FALSE;
DELETE FROM transactions WHERE user_id = 200 AND account_id = 10005;
```

```output
ERROR:  Illegal state: Nonlocal tablet accessed in local transaction: tablet c5a611afd571455e80450bd553a24a64: . Errors from tablet servers: [Illegal state (yb/client/transaction.cc:284): Nonlocal tablet accessed in local transaction: tablet c5a611afd571455e80450bd553a24a64]
```

We are attempting to delete from the main table (`transactions` rather than `transactions_eu_west_1`) and not specifying the partition column (there's no `geo_partition = 'EU'` clause). This means that YugabyteDB is unable to tell that the row being deleted is in fact located in eu-central-1. To fix this, we could instead run:
````

```sql
DELETE FROM transactions_eu_west_1 WHERE user_id = 200 AND account_id = 10005;
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

```output
````

DELETE 1
```

## Step 6. Adding a new geographic location

Assume that after a while, our fictitious Yuga Bank gets a lot of customers across the globe, and wants to offer the service to residents of Brazil, which also has data residency laws. Thanks to row-level geo-partitioning, this can be accomplished easily. We can simply add a new partition and pin it to the AWS South America (São Paulo) region `sa-east-1` as shown below.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

First, create the tablespace:

```

      {"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1b","min_num_replicas":1},
      {"cloud":"aws","region":"sa-east-1","zone":"sa-east-1c","min_num_replicas":1}]}'
    );
```

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

Next, create the transaction table and adjust the placement. (Replace the IP addresses with those of your YB-Master servers.)

```sh
````

./bin/yb-admin \

>     -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.07:7100 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
```

    create_transaction_table transactions_sa_east_1
```
```sh
./bin/yb-admin \

>     -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.07:7100 \
>     transactions_sa_east_1 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -master_addresses 127.0.0.1:7100,127.0.0.4:7100,127.0.0.7:7100 \
    modify_table_placement_info system transactions_sa_east_1 \
```

    aws.sa-east-1.sa-east-1a,aws.sa-east-1.sa-east-1b,aws.sa-east-1.sa-east-1c 3
```

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

Finally, create the partition for Brazil:

```sql
````

    FOR VALUES IN ('Brazil') TABLESPACE sa_east_1_tablespace;
```

> The addresses should be replaced with the addresses of your YB-Master servers.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
